DOCSP-37088 Install with an Existing Kafka Cluster (#103)
mongodb/docs-relational-migrator: source/installation/install-kafka-cluster.txt

.. _install-kafka-cluster:

======================================
Install with an Existing Kafka Cluster
======================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: tutorial

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

You can install Relational Migrator on an existing Kafka cluster including 
Kafka Connect. This installation method is ideal if you are already running 
Kafka or you have your own approach to installing and configuring Kafka.

Before you Begin 
----------------

> You must have Kafka and a Kafka Connect cluster accessible to the computer 
> running Relational Migrator.

Reviewer: **Suggestion**

Slight tweak to clarify what accessibility means in this lead-in sentence:

```suggestion
You must have Kafka and network connectivity to the Kafka Connect cluster from the computer 
running Relational Migrator.
```

Author: Updated.

Steps
-----

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Install Debezium Source Connect Plugin

>       1. Download the source connector archive for your source database.

Reviewer: **Nit**

For substeps, I have been using letters instead of numbers, would you consider changing this throughout for consistency?

```suggestion
      a. Download the source connector archive for your source database.
```

Author: updated.

>       1. Download the source connector archive for your source database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      1. Download the source connector archive for your source database:
```

Author: Updated.

         - `MySQL Connector plugin archive 
           <https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/debezium/debezium-connector-mysql/2.4.1.Final/debezium-connector-mysql-2.4.1.Final-plugin.tar.gz>`__
         - `Postgres Connector plugin archive 
           <https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/debezium/debezium-connector-postgres/2.4.1.Final/debezium-connector-postgres-2.4.1.Final-plugin.tar.gz>`__
         - `SQL Server Connector plugin archive 
           <https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/debezium/debezium-connector-sqlserver/2.4.1.Final/debezium-connector-sqlserver-2.4.1.Final-plugin.tar.gz>`__ 
         - `Oracle Connector plugin archive 
           <https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/debezium/debezium-connector-oracle/2.4.1.Final/debezium-connector-oracle-2.4.1.Final-plugin.tar.gz>`__  
         - `Db2 Connector plugin archive 

>            <https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/debezium/debezium-connector-db2/2.4.1.Final/debezium-connector-db2-2.4.1.Final-plugin.tar.gz>`__

Reviewer: **Suggestion**

I know DB2 is in scope for support in the near future, but we currently dont cover or list them in the [supported database](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/relational-migrator/getting-started/supported-databases/). If we leave this in, can we file a fast follow ticket to add DB2 to supported database / connection string pages?

Author: Yes thank you, it has been created: https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-37778 :)

      #. Unzip the archive.

      #. Copy the ``debezium-connector.jar`` file to the ``debezium-connector`` directory.

         From the downloaded archive, copy the ``debezium-connector.jar`` file to the
         ``debezium-connector-xxx`` directory at Kafka Connect’s `plugin.path 
         <https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#connectconfigs_plugin.path>`__ on your 
         Kafka Connect cluster. For example: ``/kafka/connect/debezium-connector-sqlserver``.

      #. Restart you Kafka Connect cluster.
       

>          To know if your plugin is successfully registered, you must see the following 
>          log statement in the ``kafka-connect`` start up logs:
> 

Reviewer: **Suggestion**

Minimalism:

```suggestion
         When the  plugin is successfully registered, the following 
         log statement appears in the ``kafka-connect`` start up logs:

```

Author: Updated.

         .. code-block::
            :copyable: false

            INFO || Added plugin 'io.debezium.connector.sqlserver.SqlServerConnector'

>    .. step:: Install Relational Migrator Sink Connect Plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. step:: Install the Relational Migrator Sink Connect Plugin
```

Author: Updated.

>       1. Download the latest version of the ``kafka-connect.jar`` file.

Reviewer: Should this be ``kafka-connect-migrator.jar``?

```suggestion
      1. Download the latest version of the ``kafka-connect-migrator.jar`` file.
```
![Screenshot 2024-03-15 at 12 20 51 PM](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-relational-migrator/assets/85948430/d2080f8f-c00a-465e-8202-32e4b53d00ab)

Author: Updated.

>          To download the latest ``kafka-connect.jar`` file, see the `Migrator Installer 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         To download the latest ``kafka-connect-migrator.jar`` file, see the `Migrator Installer 
```

Author: Updated.

         Repository <https://migrator-installer-repository.s3.ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/index.html>`__.

      #. Copy the ``.jar`` file to the ``kafka-connect-migrator`` directory.

         The new ``kafka-connect-migrator`` directory is found at Kafka Connect’s `plugin.path 
         <https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#connectconfigs_plugin.path>`__. For example: 

>          ``/kafka/connect/kafka-connect-migrator``. 

Reviewer: **Praise**

Nice additional context!

      #. Restart your Kafka Connect cluster. 

>          To know if your plugin is successfully registered, you must see the following 
>          log statement in the ``kafka-connect`` start up logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion         
         When the  plugin is successfully registered, the following 
         log statement appears in the ``kafka-connect`` start up logs:
```

Author: Updated.

         .. code-block::
            :copyable: false

            INFO || Added plugin 'com.mongodb.migrator.kafka.connect.MigratorSinkConnector'

   .. step:: Install Relational Migrator

      From the `download center <https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/relational-migrator>`__, 
      select the appropriate Relational Migrator installer.

   .. step:: Run Relational Migrator in ``kafka-integrated`` mode

      To run in ``kafka-integrated`` mode, update the following configurations in your 
      ``user.properties`` file.

      Your ``user.properties`` file is located in an OS specific location. For more 
      information, see :ref:`Relational Migrator File Locations <file-location>`.

>       .. list-table:: 

Reviewer: This table looks great and has some good generic setup information which may be able to be reused on other Kafka pages. Would you consider making it an include for easier maintenance / sharability?

         :header-rows: 1
         :width: 35 15 50

         * - Property Name
           - Default 
           - Description 

         * - ``spring.profiles.active``
           - local
           - Relational Migrator can be run in the following profile: 

             - ``kafka``: Remote server using embedded server deployment.
             - ``confluent``: Remote server using Confluent Cloud for managed Kafka

             Set the profile value to ``kafka``. 

         * - ``server.port``
           - 8278

>            - The port at which the Relation Migrator UI is available.

Reviewer: Slightly tweak to verbiage:

```suggestion
           - The port the Relation Migrator application runs on.
```

Author: Updated.

         * - ``migrator.kafka.bootstrap.servers``
           - No default
           - This is a list of ``host:port`` pairs of your pre-existing kafka cluster. 
             
             For more information, see `Worker Configuration Properties 
             <https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/connect/userguide.html#worker-configuration-properties-file>`__. 

         * - ``migrator.kafka.connect.url``
           - No default 
           - The Kafka Connect host url using the ``{host}:{port}`` format. 

         * - ``migrator.kafka.connect.metrics.jmx.service.url``
           - No default

>            - The Kafka Connect ``jmx`` url. 

Reviewer: **Suggestion**

I dont think ``jmx`` needs to be in monospace, also could you provide an example url here? Similar to the path example above? And possibly an example ``migrator.kafka.connect.url`` if its not too much trouble?

```suggestion
           - The Kafka Connect Java Management Extensions (JMX) url. 
```

Author: Updated. Let me know if the rendering seems a little odd, not sure if it just my end!

Learn More
----------

> 

Author: [For Reviewer]

These are currently causing build errors but will be resolved when https://github.com/mongodb/docs-relational-migrator/pull/96 is merged
